(Music) Learn how to program. Learn some math. Take a course in probability. Learn a little bit of statistics. And then, play. Build something, write something. I mean, when I say build, programming and
building systems, building things isn't just physical, right? You can build computer systems, statistical
systems, whatever. But once you try to do something, then you'll
know what tools you need, right? And you'll say, "Oh, oh my god, what? "There's this expression there, "what does
an inner product mean? "What's that? "How do I, oh, okay, I can learn that." And then when they get to college, they will
have a big jump on many of the other college students. And so when they get out of college, they'll
have an even bigger jump, and then make a lot of money. And they'll be happy, too. This stuff is fun, right? It's fun. If you're in high school and you're considering
data science, I would say get familiar with data bases, start learning SQL, start thinking
about, you know, computer science, if that's interesting. If you have a computer science course in your
school, you know, take it, and that's a good part of being a data scientist. Beyond that there are probably ways to foster
your creativity, right, your curiosity. If you like detective games, that's kind of
cool, right. And if you like treasure hunts or whatever,
right, if you're into that stuff, I think you'll, and you get the opportunity to do
that stuff, that will help you as a data scientist because it's a really a good way to kind of
make sure that you can be curious as you go about your daily life. (Music) Encourage the curiosity, encourage the experimentation. It's kind of like science fairs, science fairs
are great, they encourage that experimentation, that learning from, asking a question and
answering it through a scientific method, but doing that with data sets rather than
vinegar volcanoes. It's kind of the same thing, but learning
from data and we're going through an election season right now, there's a lot of stuff in
the news about polls and survey results and that's a great way to start a conversation
and talk about how do the people who ran the polls, how do they know, how can they predict
what's going to happen in the election. So that's another cool way to start a conversation
about data science. (Music) I would say encourage the person who is interested
in data science because to pursue to, because it's a great career and it is something that
is definitely going to be in need in the future. It's one of those highly sought after knowledge
professions that are really important to businesses around the world. So being a data scientist and being able to
help companies as they grow and learn how do to things more efficiently or how to do
things smarter, there will always be a need for people like that. And data scientists are those people. (Music) I would say that I understand what you're
talking about because I was never a great mathematics student as
well. And I think there's actually a bunch of data
scientist, who are really successful and popular, who are in the same boat. You know there's kind of arithmetic and math
in school is not necessarily everybody's best subject. But when you combine it with, you know these
aren't just hypothetical numbers, these aren't just, problem statements that you
have no connection to. When you have a connection to the problem,
it suddenly becomes much easier to use math to help understand it, I found. And so you know, knowing the people who will
benefit from the math that you do I think is really cool. (Music)