(popping) (upbeat music) A real data scientist, the
high-end data scientists, are mostly PhDs. They often come out of
physics, out of statistics, they have to have a computer
science background, they have to have a math background, they have to know about
databases and statistics and probability and all that stuff. However, if you're coming
into a data science team, I think the first skills
you need is you need to know how to program, at least have some computational thinking, so having taken a programing course, you need to know some algebra,
at least up to analytics, geometry, and hopefully some calculus, some basic probability,
some basic statistics, I mean really have to
understand the difference and different statistical
distributions, and database. I mean, one of the easiest places to start is relational databases,
which stores lots and lots of our data so people can
first walk before they can run by at least understanding
about computers and databases and how we store things
and if you understand relational databases
nowadays you can still, just with that understanding,
use big data clusters as if they were just a
big relational database. You don't have to really have
understand the whole MapReduce programming model. But then, as you go
further up in the field, then you have to know a lot
of computer science theory and statistics, it's
really, and probability, it's really the intersection of them that the high end data scientists, the PhD data scientists work with. (music) I do a lot of self-learning. I think everybody these days, I mean, I learned about
Hadoop all by myself, I read some articles,
I watched some videos, I thought, I played,
although I'm a builder, I'm a tinkerer, so if I wanna figure out how to do something, I build it. I mean, my first HPC cluster I heard about this term a Beowulf cluster, I mean, yeah, what the hell's that? So I looked it up and said, oh, it's just a bunch of
computers hooked together with a TCP/IP network, that's pretty easy, so we get a grant from Citi Bank and we built a five
thing cluster and I said, oh, well, that's HPC. I said, I had one of
the first HPC clusters at the university, it
was tiny but a lot of our researchers loved it
because they could run stuff 40 and 50 times faster. So I think one of the ways you
learn things is you do them, you have to do them, and these
online learning platforms especially now that we
have things like IPython and Jupyter Notebooks and I guess Zeppelin means that you can actually go in and take some of these courses and you can do things right then and you can see them and
feel them and play with them and, at that point, you know,
you'll start to get your head around what is actually happening. Motivation is the key
problem in all of these, is how to keep people motivated and I think the badge system
that the, what was it, Big Data University
has, is one of the ways is how do you get people
to keep going through. But if they want to, they can. It's up to the individual to. So they have to understand
what the goal is. (music) The place it can't sit is probably under the CIO,
the Chief Information Officer. CIOs current chief information
officers in many companies got there from an accounting background or a finance background, they're clueless. Sorry. But they really, it has to
come out of the research side. So you'll find data scientists
primarily in companies that have some research
agenda, pharmaceuticals, finance, all of, any technology company. If you look at, we can't keep some of our PhD data scientists in our program, they are now at Facebook, they're at Linkedin, they're
at Uber, they're at Lyft, because the demand out
there for the PhD level data scientist is just unbelievable. They make large amounts of money and they're playing with problems that are really, really neat. How do you schedule the Uber cars? You have enormous amounts of data. (music)