[MUSIC] The emergence of Internet of things and
advances in distributed computing have brought vast amounts of data and the
technological capability to analyze it. Now that we can extract useful insights
and new knowledge, we need to know how to shape that data to focus on what to
do with it and what it can do for us. Enter data science. Companies like LinkedIn,
Glassdoor, Indeed, and Dice track employment trends which
show a career in data science moving up the list of most promising jobs
to become number one since 2016. It remains one of the top
three career choices for 2020. Dice noted that job postings are from
companies in a wide variety of industries, not just tech. Global Industry Analysts Incorporated
predicts that the data science platform market will
grow by $314.8 billion US by 2025,
driven by a compounded growth of 38.2%. McKinsey Global Institute warned
of huge talent shortages for data and analytics by 2018. Forrester Research Analyst Brandon Purcell
said, in January of 2019, the demand for
data scientists will only grow as organizations increasingly
rely on data-driven insights. We're now well into that period, and
recruiters are finding it difficult to fill the growing need for
talented data scientists. What motivates someone
going into a data science? For one thing, data science
applies to almost any discipline. So if you have the aptitude and
desire to work with data, enjoy coding, have no problem learning math and
statistics, and you are a good storyteller, then you can certainly
enter a data science field and excel. For most people,
this means acquiring additional tools and skills and continuously learning about
new tools and techniques in the field. The women in data science initiative
spearheaded by the Stanford Institute for Computational and Mathematical Computing
have committed to inspire and educate data scientists worldwide, regardless of
gender and to support women in the field. When you are seeking
a career in data science, you need to make sure your skill set
matches the role you are targeting. You can tailor your skill set to
the specific area you want to enter, adding missing skills via one of the many
excellent online training resources. Then you'll be prepared for
a fascinating and rewarding career. So now it is time to move into
this field, when there are such diverse choices available and education
resources that make it a reality. [MUSIC]