(Music) Using Data Science techniques to understand
and analyze the large data sets available today has a huge impact on human lives. It can provide targeted information to help
healthcare professionals give the best treatment to patients, or help predict natural disasters
so that people can prepare early, and much more besides. In healthcare, data scientists use predictive
analytics developed from data mining, data modeling, statistics, and machine learning
to find the best options for patients. This type of predictive analytics examines
all known factors for a disease, including gene markers, associated conditions, and environmental
factors. It then recommends appropriate tests, suitable
trials, and any suggested treatments. Every individual physician has their own store
of knowledge gained from their studies, interests, and experiences. Data science systems that use predictive analytics
ensure that all physicians can also access the latest information about the disease,
tests, and treatment plans, tailored to their specific patient. With this type of system, every physician
has access to the same knowledge, and the best options can be consistently offered,
improving patient outcomes. For example, a study by the Boston Consulting
Group and AdvaMedDx, an industry association of medical diagnostics companies, examined
the barriers to the adoption of potentially lifesaving diagnostic tests for patients with
a specific cancer and a particular gene marker. The study discovered that the biggest factor
in the patient being offered a specific test was the patient’s oncologist, who may or
may not have known about the test and its relationship to the gene marker. By providing extra information through data
science tools, physicians can be made aware of the most helpful tests and treatments for
a specific patient. There are many opportunities to explore other
ways to mine data, such as from electronic medical records for different types of medical
research. Schools such as the NorthShore University
HealthSystem in suburban Chicago, a leader in the implementation of Electronic Medical
Records (EMR) systems, now offer guidance on data mining. It is the first healthcare provider in America
to be awarded the highest level of EMR deployment for both inpatient and outpatient care. This remarkable effort has generated much-anonymized
data available for innovative analytics research. Developing more sophisticated big data analytics
capabilities helps healthcare organizations move from basic descriptive analytics towards
predictive insights, thanks to data science. In the field of Disaster Preparedness, the
ability to save lives using Data Science tools has been under development for many years. The use of predictive analytics tools is improving
and providing new data analysis in a multitude of ways, alerting populations to danger faster
than ever before. Large, high-quality data sets can be used
to predict the occurrence of numerous types of natural disasters, which can be the difference
between life and death for thousands of people. Earthquakes, hurricanes & tornados, floods,
and volcanic eruptions can be predicted with the help of data science. Recent research at the University of Warwick
in the UK used social media content such as photos and keywords to track the development
of floods, hurricanes and other weather events. When added to the information recorded by
scientists and weather stations, this type of data can be used to improve the predictions
for localised weather events. Because the real benefit of this knowledge
is so important, schools are starting to include this type of data science education in their
curriculum. For instance, the University of Chicago Graham
School offers a Master of Science course in Threat and Response Management. Data science tools enable organizations to
analyse vast quantities of data from widely different sources, and present that information
in a way that allows data scientists to gain new knowledge, in some cases, saving hundreds
of lives. (Music)